# Milestone 1 - 6.470

## User Research
---------------------------
**1. What problem does your application address, and how does your application address it?**  
    - Our application addresses the problem of trying to find cookable dishes for those who are also interested in monitoring their nutritional intake. Our application seeks to allow users to upload recipes of dishes while giving them an approximate estimate of the nutritional value. Users will then be able to share these recipes to the public, letting others not only use but modify the original recipe. Since much of cooking is personalized depending on tastes, users will be given the option of posting a "variant" of an original recipe, and the general public will be able to see these variants and upvote the ones that they think produce the best results. 

**2. What are the killer features of your application?**
    - Users can create dishes by adding ingredients to a recipe. The system will then generate approximate nutritional value (caloric content, fat, sugars, etc.) and display it to the user. They may also include brief instructions on how to actually cook the dish, for their own reference or if they would like to publish it for public viewing. Recipes may be saved privately (for a personal cookbook) or publicly (to share).
    
    - Since the application also serves as a database of recipes, users can search for public recipes. Since nutritional value is also stored along with the recipes, search can be modified by a variety of nutritional parameters, such as calories, fat, and proteins. Users may also have the ability to generate a random meal based on diet parameters - this will help dieters who cook for themselves find a variety of interesting meal choices that still allow them to remain on track for their health goals.
    
    - While viewing publicly displayed recipes, users can create their own variant and, if they choose, repost it. Users can then browse through a list of variants and upvote based on the quality of the variant - because some people may have different tastes, recipes will not be one size fits all. The variants of a recipe will be ordered by the voting system - having users collectively vote will allow other browsing users to see the ones that are most generally liked.
    
**3. Identify and briefly describe your target demographic. Who do you envision using your site?**
    - Our main demographic is dieters who cook for themselves. These users will gain the most from the website, as they will be able to easily look for recipes and generate meals that let them stay within their diet limits. By allowing recipes to be shared, dieters will be able to indirectly communicate each other and offer tried and proven suggestions for delicious yet nutritious options.
    
    - Our application can also be used by anyone interested in cooking, as these ideas are also appealing to cooks in general.

**4. Develop at least one use case for your site.**
    - Example Task: Creating a recipe with nutritional values displayed
        - [User] Clicks on button to begin recipe creation process
        - [App]  Displays list of ingredients/total nutritional value
        - [User] Adds amount of ingredient to recipe
        - [App]  Adds ingredient to recipe list, updates nutritional value
        - [User] Completes recipe
        - [App]  Updates, displays completed nutritional value
        - [User] Saves recipe

## Site Design
---------------------------
**1. Draw out, by hand, three different designs for this page.**
    - See drawing-1.jpg, drawing-2.jpg, and drawing-3.jpg.

**2. Make a list of 3 pros and 3 cons for each design.**
    - Drawing 1
        - Pros
            - Images make the list of ingredients more detailed for users and better on the eyes
            - Navigation bar is easy to use and simple
            - Search function allows for better site navigation
        - Cons
            - Because of the size of the pictures and the number of ingredients, the thumbnails may become cluttered.
            - Some features seem to be out of place, may not be applicable to some users.
            - Needs a better way to display nutritional information
    - Drawing 2
        -Pros
            - Simplistic style uses icons instead of words to demonstrate functionality
            - Displays all information using most of the space given
            - Separates the recipes and ingredients for easier user navigation of the list
        - Cons
            - Mostly text, may be a bit user unfriendly/boring to look at
            - List elements expand to give nutritional value - may seem a bit awkward (maybe another mechanism?)
            - Spacing of elements can be improved
    - Drawing 3
        -Pros
            - Images make the list of ingredients more detailed for users
            - Very compact and simple
            - Dropdowns for navigation bar to make UI more smooth
        -Cons
            - Navigation bar has relatively limited use
            - List of currently used ingredients may get hard to navigate if there is a lot of them
            - Spacing of elements can be improved

**3. Pick the best design and mock it up using an image editing program or using HTML/CSS. Submit a screenshot of this mockup.**
    - See foodback.png for the drawing. This was done in Microsoft Paint.

## Minimum Viable Product
---------------------------
**1. What features do you plan to implement? How critical are they to the proper functioning of your application?**
    - We plan to implement the system that will allow users to create their recipes and see the estimated nutritional value. We will also implement the public listing and search functions for recipes. These features are rather critical to the application, as they are the core feature.
    
**2. What features do you plan to leave out? How critical are they to the proper functioning of your application?**
    - We plan to leave out the other mentioned features, such as variant recipes or generating randomized meals with diet parameters, as they are not as necessary to the application as the above. If time permits, they will be worked on prior to the MVP, but otherwise, they are not of high enough priority compared to the features mentioned in question number 1.
    
**3. Are there any other aspects of your application that are reduced in your MVP? Examples including limited fake datasets, stylistic concerns, security concerns, etc.**
    - Since this application requires a bit of research and database population, the database may not be complete for the MVP. Some design elements may also not be set in stone for the MVP, as we as a team may tweak and modify designs as we please. Some of the thing that will make user interaction more smooth and enjoyable may be reduced in the MVP, but should be completed afterwards.

## Addition Questions
---------------------------
**1. Who is in your team?**
    - Genghis Chau (gchau@mit.edu)
        MIT Undergrad Class of 2016, Course 6 (EECS)
        Registered to take class for credit
    - Kevin Peng (kpeng94@mit.edu)
        MIT Undergrad Class of 2016, Course 6 (EECS)
        Registered to take class for credit
    - Rene Zhang (rz99@cornell.edu)
        Cornell University Undergrad Class of 2016, Computer Science
        Not registered to take class for credit

**2. Which of the themes does your application match best?**  
    - Our application best matches the "Health and Nutrition" theme, as it helps coordinate users' daily diets and nutritional intake.
    
**3. What technology do you plan to use for your server-side programming?**  
    - We plan to use Django and MySQL for the server-side implementation of our application.

**4. What risks do you envision preventing you from successfully implementing your idea?**
    - One risk that may prevent us is gathering the data needed for our idea - since we plan to estimate nutritional value depending on ingredients, we will require a relatively large database of information on the nutritional values of different food ingredients, which will take time and, for some more obscure ingredients, may not necesarily be available. 
    
    - Another risk is that the idea has a variety of extra features that can be added, but adding too many features will take time and may make the application too convoluted for users to properly use. As a result, it is important to decide which features are truly beneficial and which are not.
    
    - A last risk is time; most of our group will be busy with other IAP engagements (in the case of non-MIT students, classes may begin in the middle of the month). Depending on how complicated our idea evolves, we may not be able to complete it to satisfaction just because of time constraints.
    
**5. Are you planning to participate in the competition? If so, are you competing in the main division or the rookie division?**
    - Yes, we plan to participate in the main division.
